Peeragogy is a collection of techniques for collaborative learning and
collaborative work. By learning how to ``work smart'' together, we hope
we can leave the world in a better state than it was when we arrived.

Indeed, humans have learned from each other forever. But for a long time
-- until the advent of the Web and widespread access to digital media --
schools have had an effective monopoly on the business of learning. Now,
with access to open educational resources and free or inexpensive
communication platforms, groups of people can learn together outside as
well as inside formal institutions. All of this prompted us to
reconsider the meaning of ``peer learning.''

The Peeragogy Handbook isn't a normal book, it is an example of the kind
of work that's only just possible now. It is an evolving guide, and it
tells a collaboratively written story: it's one that \emph{you} can help
write. Using this book, you will develop new norms for the groups you
work with, whether online, offline or both. Every section includes
exercises and research methods that you can apply to build and sustain
strong and exciting collaborations. When you read the book, you will get
to know the authors, and you will see how we have applied these ideas:
in classrooms, in research, in business, and more.

You'll meet Julian, who put the ideas to work as one of the directors of
a housing association; Roland, a professional journalist and
change-maker; Charlie, a language teacher and writer who works with
experimental media for fun and profit; and Charlotte, an indie publisher
who wants to get better at what she does by helping others learn how to
do it well too --- as well as many other contributors from around the
world.

The book focuses on techniques for
\href{http://peeragogy.org/convene/}{building a strong group},
\href{http://peeragogy.org/organize/}{organizing a learning space},
\href{http://peeragogy.org/cowork/}{doing cooperative work}, and
\href{http://peeragogy.org/assessment/}{conducting effective peer
assessment}. These major sections are complemented by a catalog of
design patterns, and notes on relevant technologies. The book is first
and foremost a practical guide. It will change the way you think about
getting things done. The following brief section is a guide to using the
handbook itself; after that, we provide a a succinct overview of the
contents of the book which will help you begin thinking like a
peeragogue. As you work through the chapters that follow, you will
master these techniques. Once again, future editions
\href{http://peeragogy.org/resources/how-to-get-involved/}{can include
your voice}, so don't hesitate to
\href{http://peeragogy.org/contact/}{get in touch} with comments or
questions.

%\textbf{\href{hhttp://youtu.be/\_UMAZbBOOCA}{LIVE SESSION}} 10/7 1PM
%GMT-5
