**Happy Public Domain Day, 1 Jan. 2014!**
=========================================

Press Release
=============

The editors of the Peeragogy Handbook are delighted to announce that the
revised, second edition of the Handbook ("Version 2") will be published
on Public Domain Day 2014 (1 Jan. ’14). The Handbook is the world’s
first book to present Peeragogy, a synthesis of techniques for
collaborative learning and collaborative work. Itself the result of the
techniques it presents, this version features a new Foreword from the
Internet pioneer and collaboration thinker, Stanford University
educator, and founding editor of the Handbook, [Howard
Rheingold](http://rheingold.com/). The Handbook has drawn praise from
leading Peer-to-Peer theorist Michel Bauwens, Research Director of the
[Free/Libre Open Knowledge Society](http://floksociety.org/en/) (a
project at the Instituto de Altos Estudios Nacionales (IAEN) national
university in Ecuador, with support of the Ecuadorian Ministry of Human
Resource and Knowledge): “Rheingold and a great team of collaborators
have preceded the rest of humanity in exploring the new dynamics of
technologically-enhanced peer learning," said Bauwens.

-   Click [here to read the full Press
    Release](http://peeragogy.org/version-2-of-the-peeragogy-handbook-published-for-free-download-on-public-domain-day-2014/ "VERSION 2 OF THE PEERAGOGY HANDBOOK PUBLISHED FOR FREE DOWNLOAD ON PUBLIC DOMAIN DAY 2014").
-   Click [here to download a PDF version of the Press
    Release](http://www.danoff.org/leftinfront/wp-content/plugins/download-monitor/download.php?id=104).

Download and Read Your Copy for Free
====================================

-   Click [here to download and read your FREE copy of Version 2 of the
    Peeragogy Handbook](http://peeragogy.net/peeragogy-2.0-print.pdf).

Help Spread the Word
====================

[+1 the Handbook on
Google+](http://plus.google.com/+PeeragogyOrgHandbook)

[Tweet about the Handbook on Twitter](http://twitter.com/Peeragogy)

(or tweet the whole thing, 140 characters at a time, it's public
domain!)

[Like the Handbook on Facebook](http://facebook.com/Peeragogy)

Register Below for Notification of the Print Edition
====================================================

**Welcome to the Peeragogy Handbook!**

Peeragogy is a collection of techniques for collaborative learning and
collaborative work. By learning how to "work smart" together, we hope to
leave the world in a better state than it was when we arrived.

Indeed, humans have always learned from each other. But for a long time
-- until the advent of the Web and widespread access to digital media --
schools have had an effective monopoly on the business of learning. Now,
with access to open educational resources and free or inexpensive
communication platforms, groups of people can learn together outside as
well as inside formal institutions. All of this prompted us to
reconsider the meaning of "peer learning."

The *Peeragogy Handbook* isn't a normal book. It is an evolving guide,
and it tells a collaboratively written story that *you* can help write.
Using this book, you will develop new norms for the groups you work with
--- whether online, offline, or both. Every section includes practical
ideas you can apply to build and sustain strong and exciting
collaborations. When you read the book, you will get to know the authors
and will see how we have applied these ideas: in classrooms, in
research, in business, and more.

You'll meet Julian, one of the directors of a housing association;
Roland, a professional journalist and change-maker; Charlie, a language
teacher and writer who works with experimental media for fun and profit;
and Charlotte, an indie publisher who wants to become better at what she
does by helping others learn how to do it well too --- as well as many
other contributors from around the globe.

The book focuses on techniques for [convening a strong
group](http://peeragogy.org/convene/ "Convene"), [organizing a learning
space](http://peeragogy.org/organize/ "Organize"), [doing cooperative
work](http://peeragogy.org/cowork/ "Cowork"), and [conducting effective
peer assessment](http://peeragogy.org/assessment/ "Assess"). These major
sections are complemented by a catalog of design patterns and notes on
relevant technologies.

The next section is a guide to using the book, but, in brief, if you're
reading this book on peeragogy.org, please use the comment feature to
share your thoughts, and if you're reading it on paper, get out your pen
and start making notes. The best way to get something out of Peeragogy
is to put a lot into it. We are always interested in more case studies,
and anything that will improve the presentation and usefulness of this
material, so please don't hesitate to [get in
touch](http://peeragogy.org/contact/ "Contact Us").

googleacbac2db70ae2a56
