Early on, active peeragogue Charlie Danoff
[suggested](http://socialmediaclassroom.com/host/peeragogy/wiki/rolesdivision-labor)
that someone take on the "wrapper role" â€“ do a weekly pre/post wrap, so
that new users would know the status the project is at any given point
in time. The project's [wiki
page](http://socialmediaclassroom.com/host/peeragogy/) also serves as
another sort of "wrapper". We check the public summaries of the project
from time to time to make sure that they accurately represent the facts
on the ground. Note that in its various forms, the "wrapper role" plays
an important integrative function. According to the theory proposed by
Yochai Benkler, for free/open "commons-based" projects to work, it is
vital to have both (1) the ability to contribute small pieces; (2)
something that stitches those pieces together [1]. In the first year of
the Peeragogy project, the "Weekly Roundup" by Christopher Tillman Neal
served to engage and re-engage members. Peeragogues began to eager
watched for the weekly reports to see if our teams or our names had been
mentioned. When there was a holiday or break, Chris would announce the
hiatus, to keep the flow going. In the second year of the project, we
didn't routinely publish summaries of progress, and instead, we've
assumed that interested parties will stay tuned on Google+.
Nevertheless, we maintain internal and external summaries, ranging from
agendas to press releases to quick-start guides. Regular meetings
provide an alternative way to stay up to date: see the Heartbeat
pattern.

Reference
---------

1.  Benkler, Y. (2002). [Coase's Penguin, or Linux and the Nature of the
    Firm](http://www.yale.edu/yalelj/112/BenklerWEB.pdf), *Yale Law
    Journal* 112, pp. 369-446.

